recommend it for anyone who would like
to know more about this space and
network with your peers. So, um the the
URL is there definitity.co.nz if you
want to find out more information and
and see if you can sign up. But thank
you. Hand it over back to you.
Cool. Yeah. Um
what's the user group name, David?
uh fabric and powerbi or um so and in
case you think you're not going to be
here and you're going to be in Canada,
it's actually we may have it in Toronto.
I heard the rumor as well. Um but at the
end of the day, who uses PowerBI?
Okay. Who are data people?
It's for you. End your story.
I'm hiring.
So, and you are coorganizer for that
user group, right?
Yeah.
Cool. Yeah. Talk to David about the user
group as well. So, they done a great
event last week. I was there.
Um, so before we go forward, I'm just
going to do a bit housekeeping and then
I think Rory will pick up after that.
So, please be nice to each other and
nice to us and nice to be nice human
being. Um, it's a code of conduct and
normal good. So this is where we are
about facilities that room and those are
the coffee machines um where where they
are in the kitchen and somewhere there
and that's where rubbish is. So if you
have a rubbish that you need to take
care of that's where you're going to go
and fire extinguisher and first aid kit
is behind the lobby and lobby is just
there where you get your name tags.
These are where the toilets are from the
boat side from the elevators. But right
now, since last 10 minutes, if you go to
L toilet, uh you cannot get out. So, you
need one of those uh cards from the door
to get out. But please bring your card
back because you need those cards. We
keep running the events here. Um so, you
can get in, but you cannot get out. So,
please take one of the cards.
And in case of emergency, uh this this
is the path we need to follow. Um
so and when we get out same stairs from
you know where you go
and uh these are the assembly area next
to hotel. I remember the hotel name this
time
because I keep forgetting last seven
months since September I start
presenting it. Um and that's our
assembly area or around the corner.
And I think it's last one. So you guys
need a QR code to get in and you will
need QR code to get out as well. Do not
follow each other. It's called tailing I
guess. I don't know. But I'm Turkish so
you will need a QR code. Take a picture
of the QR code here. You that one or if
you um or get a QR code from there's a
basket there. Please I shouldn't touch
that. Please remove, you know, uh, leave
the name tags with the plastic and the
page inside back to the where you get it
from because those you shouldn't take
it. And please do not push the emergency
button to exit the building unless it's
an emergency. Unless
um
Yeah. and Rory, our um identity
consultant, will present about
I'm going to be
all hear me.
So, hi, I'm Rory. I'm one of the
organizers and I completely misspelled
because I've been overseas and I got
back on Sunday so I frantically had to
put something together.
Tell them why.
Go on.
I was actually walking the commamino to
Santiago.
If you know what the Camino is, it's a
it's a pilgrimage
from all over Europe to Santiago. If you
want to do the French Camino, it's 860
km. I didn't do the whole thing, but
But yeah, it's it's huge. It's massive.
Massive. But yeah, that's what I do. And
not only that, it was 36° because
there's a heat wave in Europe.
Anyway,
so
I do identity. There wasn't a lot about
identity at build. Um, but agent ID
obviously one of the important things.
So agent ID is not a human identity.
Each agent has an identity. It can be
audited. There's permissions. that can
do conditional access and you get a
complete log and you can control what
your agents do. So you don't get rogue
agents and we now have SDK and execution
containers. So basically they run within
strictly defined boundaries
but really there wasn't that much about
identity but anyway so I what I did is I
watched
some of the more kind of fun ones
because you got all these other speakers
that are going to drill deeper for you.
So um one of one of the things is is
enter external ID we've got support
we've got migration
migration is huge people using B TOC you
want to move to enter external ID
okay so major 2 that was a really
interesting talk which is quantum
computing
that is their new chip uh which does
magic stuff. I don't pretend to
understand it but that is the chip that
is basically the future of quantum
computing for Microsoft. And if you
really interested in learning more about
it, they've just published a paper which
describes that chip that you just did
and the paper's called 20 second par
lifetime in an EV tetron device. So I
don't even understand the title anyway.
It's really it's a really interesting
talk and go and watch it if that's what
you need.
Okay. And then we have two guys who
always talk. Scott Hanselman who's the
VP of developer relations and Mark Risen
who is the VP of Azure. He is the CISO
for security. He's also an Azure
technical fellow and they do some really
really funny talks. So in this
presentation, Scott and Mark learned to
vibe check. They got four developers to
present to them on their
product that they used and they had to
decide whether it was AI slop and it was
just they told AI to do something and it
just triggered out some stuff and that's
what it did or whether you use five
coding. So it's kind of running the main
thing or whether it's a mentor or
basically are you using co-pilot as
almost like a peer programmer. So the
first guy or really fascinating talk he
developed hallucinating odds. It's an
operating system but it doesn't have any
apps at all. So if you say I want to use
a calculator
it knows what a calculator looks like
right
calculator. So, it spins up a calculator
on the fly with plus buttons and stuff
and you can do all your stuff and when
you're finished it disappears. You want
to do Notepad, it knows what Notepad
does. So, it spins up a Notepad
and you do Notepad and then it
disappears. It doesn't have any apps in
it. It's like it's just like magic. And
so, I don't know if any of you can
remember in Carter and Carter was a
Microsoft product on a DVD that was kind
of the same as, you know, encyclopedia.
Um, so they said Bulgian and Carter that
only goes up to the year 2000. So when
it spun up a whole Carter system that
you could Google like a encyclopedia,
but we couldn't ask it any questions
after 2000 because that was the limit of
its knowledge. It's a really fascinating
talk. Um, I'm still trying to get my
head around it. And the next lady that
stood up developed the whole database in
the browser and she only use CSS.
And so Mark Ros's first question was why
why would you do this? and she said,
"Oh, I love CSS."
So that's what she did. She built this
whole thing and really quite a
fascinating talk. And the other two were
really just apps, you know, that that
presented
what's happened here.
Sorry.
So, but what's really other interesting
thing is that this presentation had
adverts. Now, I've watched many many
builds and I've never seen a build with
adverts. So, I don't know that's the
sign of the future. It's not a good
sign, but they had adverts.
Okay. And then Marco Rosenovich does a
kind of a a speech where he talks about
what's happening in Azure, things in the
future. So this section that he's
talking about is stuff in the future,
stuff they're working on. This might
never ever come to production. This is
an idea. Um, and so we have at the
moment we want high speed, we use
copper, but high speeds use data loss.
So we have to shorten their distances,
which is not what we want. On the other
hand, we've got fiber, which is super
cool and high speed, very, very hot,
uses a lot of energy, and we don't want
that. So,
one of the things they're looking at is
a project mosaic, which basically uses
lots and lots of low speed fiber. This
is many channels operating at a low
speed. And so, the idea is that you use
micro arrays. So, those are the arrays
that you get in things like smart
glasses. And you've got some imaging
filters. And on the other side you've
got a camera. So you can imagine you've
got the, you know, the cable and you've
got all the fibers. So each fiber could
be a dot, right? So you could make stuff
with it. So they gave this demo. Their
research lab is in Cambridge in the UK.
And so what they did is on the one side
they typed the letter zed and then the
letter zed came up
across this really low speed network. So
this might never ever see the light of
day but it's one of the many many things
that they
and then we had a talk from Scott and
Mark about how they reshaped software
engineering. So they talked about
project lobster and 17 engineers pull
requests
lines of code
all kinds of stuff. And this has now
gone public and I've just forgotten the
name of it.
The um the agent
Scout,
sorry, Scout. That's it. So, this is now
Scout. It was called Project Lobster.
This is what you know as Scout. 2.7
million lines of code written with the
help of AI. So, it wasn't just slop. It
was actually augmented using it,
checking it, running it. That kind of
shows you what what you can do when you
use it properly.
And one of the other things that Scott
Hans does is he writes all these little
tools. So does Marinovich. And so
they've made a place. Anyone's written a
little utility that you're quite proud
of and you want to put it up in the
world to share, you can put it up here.
Tiny tool town. There's about 451 at the
moment and it's growing. Go and put it
up there. Putting your stuff, let other
people use it. Get some feedback. It's
not This is not for, you know, CMS
systems. This is for some tiny little
thing that does one thing well that you
use that maybe other people would like.
Okay. And then so this is one of the
things they were talking about. If you
remember back to the days of 2001 of
space odyssey, this is talking to AI. So
you say to the AI, "Open the pod doors,
hell." He says, "Of course, Dave. I've
opened the pod doors. Just tell me if
there's anything else I can do." And you
say, "Hell, the pod doors aren't open."
Says, "Good catch." You know, that's
what they does. Well, I I when you asked
me, I didn't do it, but I'm going to do
it now. Yes. Hell, open the pod doors.
No problem. The pod doors are now open.
Hell, the pod doors are still closed.
You're absolutely right, Dave. And if
you've ever used AI, that's exactly what
it does, right? It apologizes and tells
you. So, I thought that was really
funny.
Now, one of the other things they talked
about was the fact that in the old days
last year, we got uh we got interns and
they got all simple jobs to learn how to
Now the problem is all the simple jobs
are now being done by AI. So what what
are interns doing? How does interns
become senior because you can see there
from the graph the number of interns
that have been steadily decline which
means that in 10 years time there's not
going to be any seniors. So how and so
they had a whole discussion about that
and they wrote a paper sorry and so what
they were talking about was every era
has something that defines it. So back
in the day of mainframes, everyone wrote
assembler, right? There was nothing to
help you. You just wrote assembler and
there were no tools. And then we got ids
and you got intellisense and then
someone said intellisense rots the brain
because intellisense don't have to think
and then we got stack overflow. So what
happens when you got stack overflow? You
copy paste. Don't show me anyone who
hasn't copy pasted just from because
everybody right. And now we've got AI
and people saying oh it's the end of
coding but it's just another part of
that evolution that you can see.
So back to back to if you're interested
I wrote a paper
software engineering profession. So
that's solution they propose to upskill
interns
can progress even in the world of AI. So
it's a really interesting paper and I I
recommend
that's their little brainstorm about how
and this is the kind of thing that
they're going to be doing within
Microsoft.
Okay. So to sum up the presentation
which again I recommend you go and watch
basically programming the craft didn't
die. It just moved up a level from
writing code now.
Okay. And now I'm going to hand off
So what I've done is
I need to choose normally a breakout
session but instead of that what I've
done is I asked um cover
to build me a session.
for me. Then as an extra I said also
give me the talking points so I can
present. So let's see how that's going
to go. So and I'm not well prepared.
Let's see. Um
so
it's kind of like a good experiment um
because
everything a lot of talk was about
agents and these are the current
statistics. It probably already changed
because GitHub get more expensive and
probably it might go down a bit. Um
but originally I was going to talk about
just break out two or three but then I
asked
hey give me all the
bring all the presentations slides and I
put all of them into coork. I'm like
create a story and give me like a com
combined slide. I'm not going to be able
to go all of it and I probably have just
10 minutes. Um but yeah, so first thing
it did was creating this um story about
that five unrelated sessions into one uh
one pipeline, five vantage points. So,
so in breakout 203 uh I forget their
name right now but they show the
capabilities of copilot with copilot CLI
and um CL they stayed on
and then um there was a session about
copilot SDK which was um 206 and without
co was okay that that can be related you
know we can build an app with copilot
SDK then for the structure um you can
use um agent harness about where your
agent is going to you know work and then
um but you need some knowledge about
your um
you might need a knowledge and you might
have you know Microsoft IQ or Foundry IQ
or um fabric IQ can help with the
knowledge part and then uh also you can
use found optimize so it kind of create
this um hallucinated story line
I would say um but we focus on the CL
CLI to PR part.
Um
so normally this is
what the current um work life cycle of a
like a issue end to end these days. So
we pick an issue and we used to just
work and copy paste from stick overflow.
Now we asked co-pilot to write it and
yesterday there was an hour or two of
the window that co-pilot was down and in
my company everyone was like okay let's
go back to start writing code again so I
don't know if you guys see that it was
scary like we were like oh how we like
loop um but copal worked really well
especially in like since last September
I'm really happy with the you correct
way of like you know custom prompt or
you know skills forget about then you
can push the branch you know then open a
proest and CI validates your basics you
know you can run some tests and team
reviews edge cases and merge
on a machine with a human problem
why this matters
um we already start putting AI into it
but there are more you can do
and copilot can help with most of the
part with this. Um, who use copilot?
All right, that's good. Uh, I hope you
guys are enjoying it because
I love terminal user interfaces and as
soon as they dropped this big banner, I
was like, I love it. Every time I run
copilot, I do copilot db banner d yo
because you only live once, right? So,
um, so what come with the copilot CLA is
it is headless. Um you can I mean you
can do headless automation with the uh
CI but um it's interactive assistance
but focus on more prompt than the you
know in instead of your VS code life
cycle. So you mostly communicate with
the agents and you um can use SL
commands or SL commands is mostly skills
these days or um pre provided uh
tools I would say.
So it is really interesting. They did a
session uh they they did a live coding
with copilot CLI
um so you can read your issues because
it is using GitHub copilot SDK under the
hood and also it can read your it's
using your uh session so it can see your
um issues and you know
can manage those for you as well. So
these are example like um this probably
already out of date. They start with
this. These are the models you can use.
I don't know if fable is there but you
know we can't use it anymore. I don't
know if you guys see the fable drama.
Yeah.
Um so mostly I prefer 5.4 in a high
context window because others are
expensive and get expensive. But these
are the you can run the copilot with
this command direct and directly choose
it or when you're in a session you can
use /model command and or you can set
environment variable and it will always
start with it or you can set a
configuration file. So
and
skills
who use skills right now
cool more skill user than user. So
normally when we start having the GitHub
copilot as one of the tools like agentic
tools we were writing our own prompts
and then we have custom prompt files
then we start having agents but I think
with MCP and skills we are start using
default agents in the local development
environment and start using skills mode.
So this is an example skill uh a review
skill they are doing. So and where it
can load is it can load from parent
directories you can have um there's
multiple version of skills there's like
cloud version open code version copilot
and that can live on your repository
level on your project level or it can
live in your uh personal directory level
there's all sort of stuff um
but they are if you guys don't use it's
really useful to go um
builtin agents that's something I want
to go
skip this one because
um I want to talk about plan mode
autopilot these two are really fun who
use plan mode like do you guys know
you should yes
so
have you guys heard spectrum development
before so there was a big I think it's
still active project there's a spec kit
come from uh one of the guys from
GitHub. He moved to I think Androvic
recently. He's on top of the uh MCP
team. Um specit was
focusing on the specs or requirements
first then using custom skills that come
with the specit to implement those in an
iterative and agentic approach. And um
there's also openspec is another version
from open source
competitor maybe
And composite plan mode does the same
thing. So when you're on CLI, you can
just do shift tab and go to plan mode.
And what it does is it create a plan and
put in your session directory plan. MD
as far as if I'm not wrong. That's nice.
I don't know what's up there. Um, and
then
when you put a proper prompt about like
you know what you want to plan about
like you know hey let's try to build the
application with angular.net net and put
an inspire as an example. uh that's what
you're going to do when I have my free
time and then as soon as it's done it
can ask you hey should I go and
implement it in you know agent mode or
do you want to do something else so that
mode is really powerful and then you can
directly switch to uh autopilot mode
if I do any ads and changes or somebody
says oh have you considered using this
so therefore you could sidestep it would
you actually add it to the plan or would
you really
restructure and redo the whole thing?
So there is two approach I take. Um so
plan mode here is using the plan MD on
the on your session level. So when you
get out of the session and when you come
back you might lose that session unless
you explicitly resume that session but
who it has been generated. Okay.
So what I do is I ask my agent
to create a specs or requirements that I
have in the as part of my repository. So
I create like a docs or requirements and
then if I already implement I can go and
say okay this features changed please
you know either create a new feature so
because it's iteratively so then it can
work on it and what I start doing as
well um
when I work on those plans that for
example I have like 10 requirements I
ask agent to um I explicitly ask agent
when I'm planning I'm creating a
requirement dependencies specifically
defined in like a top level markdown
file in that folder. So when I go to
flip mode, flip mode knows which ones
are not dependent and bundled
which is actually
yeah so fleet mode is there um they
bring couple of extra stuff I'm not sure
how new these are these slash comments
so with slash PR and uh slash PR you can
open and manage pest p stands for pest
um I'm not going to go about research
search. You guys go to homework.
Um, review is an interesting one. So
there there's a rubber duck um comment
as well and review command. So review
command spin up a sub agent and run
three
sub aent in different models and um
collect and well the output
robot do this similar as well and I'm
not 100% sure about what is difference.
I try rubber duck multiple times. I use
rubber duck, but I didn't try the
preview mode, but I'm using experimental
and fleet mode a lot. I should probably
stop talking soon. Fleet mode is when
you start your command with a
slashfleet, it analyze your prompt and
it create a it creates a plan and then
attack that issue if it can create
multiple sitations. If it's like there's
a way it can work on multiple things and
actually
in your session it creates a SQL light
database and track those issues as well.
So for each session you might have a
small database there. Experimental is
something I want to show is a new
lot of experimental features. One of
them is a new twe they bring. So this is
a new one very different than previous
one and on your repository you can see
your session current session and you can
see your issues request and gists. The
reason we have session there is because
there is I think slashclear clear clear
the context of the current session but
there's another one is called slash new
so when you so one of the feedback they
got apparently is
I just realized I didn't go through even
the go through those um when you work on
multiple different ideas on the same app
people were creating like multiple five
six different uh terminals and running
They solved it with this new SL session.
So when you run SL new it create a new
session and you can use SL sessions to
manage your multiple session in the same
tool and with this experimental feature
you can uh switch between sessions. So
I'm going to stop here. I'm going to put
the slides and also talking points which
I didn't follow onto the repository. Um
before
I don't know who is next
but before that I want to show something
which is this. So if you guys scan this
this is the repository we're going to
publish other resource by Monday. We
have some stuff there. Uh we have a
local host event happening tomorrow. Um
so where does it take you is
it take you to this repository.
So we are doing some talks today. We are
have a sessions tomorrow and
we're going to put some resources here
about three labs. You're not going to be
able to run the labs as it's been
explained here but we can follow those
um from here the content.
And
we're going to run some of these labs
from here. So if you go to for each
uh lab and breakout there are some
repositories like a GitHub resources and
you can for example I'm going to run uh
or I think it was 520.
I'm going to run this one. So what you
guys can do when you have time this is
about using models in foundry
and building an AI application. Um you
can follow the steps here and run these
uh labs yourself free time. You will
need a subscription and couple of uh
skill set but work really well or GP as
well. Um and especially this one works
really good. You just need to be a bit
patient.
No, no, I mean the repositories are free
but you will need Azure credit but for
Azure credit you can just
myself get you know another email and
200 bucks for whatever month it is or
use your company's resources on the
internet.
So
did everyone get the QR code?
So on that repo just under the link that
showed you there's actually another
video which is in two minutes. So you
can really like top points build in two
minutes. So that's really
so
this repository is belongs to an
organization
not this one this one
I couldn't click. So this is our
organization for this user group. So we
will start sharing more u
stuff here and you can create a
discussion if you want to have a you
know all opinion here about it or you
want to join I'm going to shut Before
I start, does anyone in this room uses
Microsoft Fabric?
little bit.
All right, I'll let you know what um the
latest announcement in Microsoft build.
So on Microsoft Direct is essentially in
the past is a power point to but right
now we have established to D engineering
now science and has much of a capability
apps on fabric as well. So thinking in
the past that if you're building apps
you might take the team probably six
months to create all your AIO web
services, your Microsoft entra ID on AIO
in order to calculate your app and you
need to go through all the design in
terms of web interface to make sure that
the interface is what you want on your
app. With the recent announcement for
project Raven on Microsoft fabric
essentially you're able to deploy um the
application on Microsoft fabric and raid
is essentially a um back end as a
service. So it's an open source SDK and
CLI that you can use on VS Code or the
GitHub um copilot CLI. You could use it
on the latest announcement from V as
well, the GitHub copilot app. So
essentially you can also use it on
cloud. So you can use it across various
um environments because it's a open
source SDK
and behind the scenes it uses TypeScript
for all the decorator for the entities.
I'll show you later how it works in
terms of the template. Before we dive
into more technical, I'll probably show
you a couple of apps that I've built um
over the weekend and you can have a
look.
So, if you haven't used fabric before,
fabric you would be able to source in
your data and store everything in fabric
as your semantic model. And in your
semantic model, you then copy all your
business logic, your data set depending
on what's some of the rules, your DEX
measures as well in semantic model. Then
you surface it to your PowerBI report.
And with Raven, what I've built is that
I've built an app that basically builds
on top of your semantic model. So
essentially this one, I'm not using a
PowerBI report anymore. I'm just using
Raven as the interface. As you can see
some of the colors, the visual, I
couldn't really actually do it on
PowerBI. But with Ray Fin and GitHub
core pilot, I am able to just use
natural language prompt saying what I
want. Do I want a light mode? Am I a
dark mode person or do I want to give
flexibility to my team to have different
um UI across it? Different part of
visual some of those currently is not
achievable on cloud bear report. So it's
pretty good to see very thin and then
you can build on top of the sematic
model that you already have in your
workspace. So in this case for example I
could filter through the brands. What I
can do is I can also send out email
based on the
um website as well. Once I click email
the outlook will be populated and it has
basically a template as to what I want
to send. I just quickly show you an
example.
close
a small window like that to say that who
is the um distributor for example in
this case it's by Apple and I say hi to
the supply person who's in charge of
that purchase order we need to perhaps
order a certain amount of the Apple iPad
and what's the quantity that I need to
order and what's the store that I want
to send it to. So essentially, if you
are a distributor or retailer, you could
use the Raven app with your semantic
model that we have posted behind the
scene and you can use this app to send
either um upload messages, but obviously
someone need to come to this app and
click on this UI and send out to the um
stories as well.
Another thing is that you can create
multiple pages as well within your HTML.
So everything is basically hosted under
a HTML and you can change all the pages.
What do you want to be shown in your
pages? Um it could be a page for your
managers or your marketing manager to
see what are some of the top selling
products. So one of them I created on an
existing semantic model that I already
have in place in my company. Another one
that I've created is now that the FIFA
World Cup is happening, what I've done
is I basically just created a dashboard
to what countries are playing and each
country I've just created a player card.
So for example, what are the players?
What is the strength? So I'm just
playing around. I use GitHub core pilot.
I'm not storing anything on my semantic
model. Nothing I'm storing. It's just
calling through APIs. So as long as you
have the key or a public API that you
want to use, you'll be able to do that.
And even all the photos is also sourced
through API. When you use GitHub core
pilot, you might figure that some um
things that might not be working or not
what you want and you can also just give
copilot the commands. For example, you
might also have created a wireframe of
what you want to design in your website.
What I've done is that I find it really
useful is I just copy and paste in terms
of my website that I've already set up
in my wireframe what I want it to be the
um layout and everything. I just pasted
in GitHub core pilot and it's able to
create this dashboard for me. So in the
past when I created it the color wasn't
nice at all the player cards wasn't
visually wasn't very nice. So I did a
wireframe and then after that I just
copy and paste and say with the existing
data I already created please use this
design on top of it. So probably give it
a go and try it out um in your own time
as well. The other one I've also created
is a this one I just did it probably
less than an hour. I just created the um
brain command. After that I just told
GitHub call pallet please create me an
earthquake monitoring tool. What this
does is that this one I'm not storing
anything on my workspace not on my SQL
database or anything. is just calling
with an open API and it's doing a
pulling approach. Every five seconds
this dashboard gets updated.
So in a way this one is more of a real
time dashboard within the last 24 hours.
It shows me the region what's happening
and
what's some of the magnitude um that's
has earthquake that has happened and I
understand um in terms of this app.
Another thing that you can think of is
um I did find something quite
interesting. it online. It gives you a
bit of the retro perspective. Um, if I
just refresh this app, everything is
actually running on HTML. So, you can
see some of the memories on window XP
how it looks like. This is just not a
generic window XP for one. What I did
was I also connected to a semantic
model. So, I do have a semantic model
that was behind the scenes, but sort of
you can see with brain you can
want your
with some of the designs that you might
find greatly.
There's also this MSM messenger. So,
this one is not a die agent. This one
runs behind the scenes in a sematic
model with the um filter that I've
already done it. So, for example, I do
have this five category that when you
click it, the D agent would respond with
the actual um DAX measure. What's
happening with the semantic model?
What's the best region? What's the total
revenue and so on. But this is not a
fabric agent. It's just running behind
the scenes index query.
In terms of your business use case, why
would your organization be using brain?
It could be time to deployment to
production. It would take shorter time
as well. What I've done is in terms of
the real time simulation, a lot of
organization currently might not have a
real time monitoring tool. So for
example, if the organization in this
case what I've done is I have created my
own ice cream factory. I hope everyone
in this room likes to eat ice cream
otherwise a bit of a waste. So what I've
done so what I've done here is that I
have actually created a 3D modeling in
my RA too. So before I set up everything
I created my 3D modeling.
I don't really study anything on 3D but
I find it pretty easy to do with AI
these days. What I want is that the one
that I want the concept and everything
and basically tri error with what I've
done and it's pretty powerful that I'm
able to create something without any
knowledge to start with. So I've created
this 3D modeling and the ice cream
production each of the production it
gives me a bit of the um line production
line what I want. So the first one is
the cone production for your ice cream
cone stick and top as well and I could
zoom in in my Raven app.
It will also tell me in terms of real
time data flowing. So you can connect to
your real time.
You can click to that live to understand
what is the throughput how many minutes
what has been produced. On top of that I
do have the truck as well. Right now I
do need to fix a bit of the bug if you
realize my truck is actually reversing
rather than but this is some sort of
thing that you can
they're backing in to get the orders.
Yes, it's traversing right. So what
happened is this truck I've given names
to it. It's all dummy data that what
truck is dispatching what products um
how much is the load on the truck. So in
a way you can actually monitor it using
real time data what's happening and in
your RA you can play with the 3D
modeling in the internet right now I see
a lot of for example if you're in the
energy sector you could also build a
really nice wind turbine to show what is
the telemetry as well there's a lot of
things that you can do in terms of um
brain path another thing that probably
it's much simple interface rather than
something that's so complex that you
need to 3D model
coming to think about use cases on brain
app or what can you actually deploy why
do you need to deploy apps on um fabric
what's the purpose of it so essentially
if you already have data that is stored
in your Microsoft fabric you might
already created a SQL database behind
the scenes and you might already have
other um reports if you're using
transitical task flow on your PowerBI
report you would notice that sometimes
when you submit it and right back to
your SQL database there would be some
lagness as well. So what Braving does is
that it remove that lagness. When you
look into the data in your SQL database
you can just click on accept job for
example in this case what I've done here
is a technician dashboard. So I've
created this app. There's two views to
it. One interface is to the technician.
So right now I've already um signed into
this um dashboard into this app. It also
works with your entra ID as well. So if
you want security in place, you would be
able to create the authentication on the
app. So anyone if it's someone that is
trying to authenticate, if they do not
have access, then they won't be able to
access your app. Right now this is the
technician view. What I've done is that
I've created multiple work orders. And
then when I view details, it shows me
what is the job that is currently
unassigned and the customer details. was
the schedule time, the task, the
address. And for me as a technician, I
look at this job. I might be quite new
to do this job because currently it's
not assigned. And then I could do the um
skills. I have the skills to replace
door handles and so on. I've just click
um accept job. That's where I would then
um start the job. And right now
for some time
refresh.
So let's say I've just accept this job
and then behind the scenes the SQL
database gets the right back. So now I'm
assigned to this task already. I could
say that I want to start work right now
and then after that it says that in
progress for this um job. If I'm want to
do some follow up I could click on this
followup as well to say it's follow up.
So the title gets changed. Otherwise if
I've done I've completed this job I can
just mark done and this job is no longer
appearing and it says completed two
another interface that the manager can
so who can also write and create job
orders. So there's another interface
that I've created for manager
perspective. So if they create this
manager they will be able to add the
customers as well. So in this case for
example um right now I'll just edit the
name then and then I'll just assign it
to an address. I want to do some
painting and I'll just leave everything
as it is. I don't need any notes of
follow up. I'll just create the order.
So band 22 wide up to address. If I just
scroll down I will be able to see that
appears on the dashboard as the manager
who is going to input all the jobs. And
then this way the technician on the
other hand would be able to see that the
manager has inputed the new customers
then and then the address and the task
from technician perspective they would
be able to then assign job to themsel
and yeah basically do the task so in
terms of a company's perspective it's up
to you depending on your use case if
it's something that's more internal that
you use in the past perhaps using power
apps to create your app right now it
sits within fabric and you can create
everything on fabric as well your is
already has all your data set that you
have created and it sit closer to your
storage.
You might be quite curious as to what is
behind the scenes, how does the SDK work
for a template, what does it mean for
that part? I just quickly show you what
it entails. So within the template
itself, there's a command line that you
can um just run the command on your
terminal. Once you have run it on your
terminal or your VS code, you would be
able to choose three templates.
Currently, there's this blank app that
you can choose or your DA app. So, DA
app is essentially what you have already
on your semantic model. You can just
apply on top of it. The blank app is
you're starting from zero. So, if you're
starting to build a new app, what it
entails is that the blank app would have
child items that is your SQL database.
This
could you go back once?
No worries.
And then yeah, so it's up to you what
template you want to choose. You can do
it on the fabric UX as well, but I find
it is much of a user better experience
if you do it from the CRI. You start
from zero. Once you have picked all this
template, for example, if you're
starting from zero, you want to do a
blank canvas. Then you would have the um
attach the SQL database behind the
scenes. After that, you can pick your
project name and then the workspace that
you want to deploy your app and the
middle part you see that what the
template includes. So it includes the
agent guide. So depending on what skills
you have used, if you use any that is um
to make your interface nicer once you
use that skill, it will also store under
the agent guide your MCP servers. If
you're using any of the fabric
engineering notebooks or your fabric
PowerBI FCP, you'll be able to see that
it is included in the template as well.
It has all the conflict file um on the
YAML what is your URL what are you
allowing the D set and some of the um
passwords as well on the sample code and
libraries so entities the decorators are
being stored in a typescript format I
haven't really used script and I find it
pretty good when I look at the template
it also teaches me how to write
typescript essentially and how to
understand how the um structure works as
well. After that, once you're happy with
the template, you would be able to use
and interact with GitHub core pilot or
any tools that you're using. For
example, clot, you could be using
interface from it. You'd be able to um
interact with it and tell cloud or
GitHub core pilot what you're trying to
install. After that, the whole um
template would be updated accordingly.
What I've done is every time when I'm
trying to generate a template or run my
app, I just attach it with my existing
GitHub repository. So anything that gets
updated and backtory
so everything is the latest and updated
and if I want to revert back to the
previous version I could do so as well.
Any questions before I move on to the
next one? Um yeah for example because
the very first app that he was shown
like a data warehouse um inventory
warehouse like system
um in terms of efforts how much you how
many efforts you would give for example
to migrate existing
WMS system from like powerups to
Microsoft public
so effort so it really depends on where
your current is store is it once is it
on database Power
power apps. So if you want to do one
sorry
yeah current one power app like they are
y
and let's say just to migrate them into
Microsoft public power apps
so Microsoft fabric um braven app would
yeah so basically essentially you need
to migrate your office you can create
shortcuts from ds to fabric once you
have landed everything on one leg so
fabric record the storage layer as one
leg once you have saved everything under
one
you have done all your modeling what you
want to do your tables and everything
you can then um use the template run
your RAIN and then tell Ravenfin what
you want to do essentially you can
either copy or paste of your existing
power apps interface if you do not want
to use your existing interface you
wanted something is probably more
updated nicer customer have come back to
you to say they want this this this
button in place you can also do that you
can copy with your existing interface,
chuck it on GitHub core pilot, you would
then wire up your existing interface and
you can add more details or
functionalities that you want. The
effort I would say
if you have set everything correctly, I
would say within
probably one day you'll be able to do
so. But it does take you some effort to
make sure that the agent is running and
your um dow your connectivity everything
is fine and you have loaded all the
tables. If your dow tables quite a big
storage then it might take some time but
if you do shortcut it's essentially just
a virtual reference to your um storage
after you um get into copilot state you
are generally giving your prompil
so you can take a screenshot of your
multiple ways on how you want to build
or you can just yeah migrate everything
to one it's up to you if you still want
to use daw
storage would be a different costing.
But if you want to do everything within
fabric, I would probably um suggest that
you migrate everything to public and not
paying both sides of the storage.
Yes.
Question. And you mean to say that all
of that is going to happen by agent by
so for for example if you want to
migrate everything from D was to let one
leg then you probably need to do it
manually. you set up all the
configuration the connection to make
sure that the um connection is working
first. Once you have landed all your
data on one link, you have created your
semantic model then you would be able to
use um VS code and everything agentic on
um right.
So the only manual thing is transferring
the data
to one lake.
Yes. There's a manual way but these days
you have MCP that you can just put
command and it can help you as well.
Yeah depending on how
If you have MCP available on
everything in a chat
on Monday
thing is if you've already created your
MCP through your template surely it's
not having
I would say is that not thinking about
this great feedback first you probably
want to make sure that the D lands
correctly and you have created all the
right tables one to one before we look
into this bra here.
Sweet.
You might be questioning how it looks in
terms of costing. So if you currently
it would fall under fabric capacity
to say
model
everything works under one billing. Um
in terms of other platforms you might
have several billings and also licensing
as well that you need to consider
personal licensing. But with Ray Fin um
once you have E5 you have pro license
and you also have just to pay the
existing fabric capacity is included in
there.
On top of that security as well. So if
you create your app within a workspace
and you use entra ID for the
registration on the security part if the
user is not in that workspace viewer
they don't have the lowest um permission
they won't be able to access your raven
app. So when you create the template it
will ask you multiple configuration
before you actually look into the
template. It will ask you what is your
project name what workspace do you want
it to be deployed. It will ask you for
your permission config as well. Do you
want it to be um entra ID authenticated
or do you want it to be just a public
application that everyone can access to.
So there's a couple of things that you
can choose before the whole grain app is
spin up
and basically with the existing a lot of
organization you're currently using
powerbi and your semantic model is all
um hosted within fabric that's where it
is much easier if you want to create an
app a low um
an internal app that you probably want
to surface or even for your customers
that you know that it's something that
is easier to spin up you can just use
brain on as well
otherwise Guys, that's pretty much of my
demo and presentation for today. I'll
pass on to the next presenter.
That's pretty much me.
I need to bring this.
Yeah.
Who here use AI on AKS or EKS or
Kubernetes? Anyone using?
Okay,
raise your hands up.
Any AI workloads? I mean, you two are
not allowed to raise your hand because I
know you guys.
Anyone using AI on AKS? Right. I'm
talking to the right.
The one thing actually I was really
excited about this build we had was uh
this announce on how we running a aentic
AI on AKS. It can be actually Kubernetes
but in this particular case let's talk
about AKS of course. Um so we had few
announcees uh announcements during this
build session and um the reason why I
say uh this kind of
people who are about to use or who are
using AI
on Kubernetes.
This will provide you a pathway and
guidance and pres guidance and all these
kind of
the following patterns you can readily
available to use and I will share all
these things. Uh I only have very few
slides to be honest and I really want to
show how I use it recently
and uh one of the uh remarks and
presentation that this uh particular
session did uh at the end u in terms of
AI workloads on Kubernetes you know we
all know that we have inference and
serving type of workloads and training
and finetuning and agentic exploration
right so these are are the three types
of workloads that you will find when
you're trying to run your own agentic AI
platform on Kubernetes or any any
platform in this manner actually. So in
inference and serving uh we have this
cardio and AI runway and uh for the
training and finetuning uh ray plus n
scale on azure which is preview uh which
was released uh last uh last last build
which was happened couple of weeks back.
Oh what did happen?
Here
we go. All right. And then uh we have of
course aentic orchestration. We use like
skills MCP open
etc. So
to maximize it so I can
that's all. Sorry about that.
I should have done that.
Oh yeah. Up. Yeah.
Right.
Here we go.
That's better.
And then let's jump into uh what
this one
Apologies for that technicality.
U so this is actually the practitioners
checklist for AI Kubernetes. This is
pretty much what we need to focus and I
will explain how I use this one for my
current uh tier one financial
organization project that I'm working
on.
We had a requirement for doing a
discovery of workloads around,200
servers and applications around 150 to
understand how they talk to each other
and then uh what we need to do to bring
it to this is like a data center project
and we were not allowed to run any kind
of tooling in inside that organization
because this is of course PII data and
all this very information data that sits
on these applications
and then the only option that we had was
creating a
creating something actually we hadn't
had any idea like what to create up
until this came through and what we did
we created this aentic AI platform on
top of AKS using the features that uh
you're going to have a look uh soon and
then uh we have these kind of
steps that we took like start with the
what Kubernetes basically gives you and
then we build the MCP skills on top of
that agent and also we choose tooling
that matches our building by post
uh when we come to tooling actually we
were using this array and any scale on
Azure and when we are creating the build
agent layer we choose this on stack
rather than renting one because we can't
still rent one because this data should
not go beyond their tenant. In that
case, all the data sits on storage
accounts and then the AKS platform does
the agentic AI discovery for this uh for
these applications by itself and then it
kind of provides us a nice dashboard. Um
I'm sorry I can't really share those
dashboards information but u it is it is
not that hard to be honest when you when
you try to use those u
and um
that's actually the the gist of it. Uh
let's before I go into the demo I would
like to showcase the what are the use
case that you can think of this is what
I could think of quickly but beyond that
uh when you have identic AI
orchestration layer the the limitations
are beyond what you can think of
actually because it's managed it's all
governed and scalable and then you have
the ability to control the models that
you want to want that particular
platform to uh consume.
So that's actually kind of uh kind of
that uh overall checklist that you can
follow through and let's jump into the
demo. In this case, uh
before we go there, if you can kind of
scan this and then have a look and then
it should have all the information uh
which I'm which I just spoke about and
the ter and the GitHub
GitHub
repo and everything.
U it's just plug and play and give it a
try and then see uh see how it goes. Now
let's see
how this actually been used at this
point. So real real world use cases
which
which is much better from his sweet and
buttery voice that he's presenting at
this point.
Can we make some noise?
generally available. We have automatic
speaker
systems
that need to run.
Right starting from here last five
minutes of this particular nice
presentation which I benefit a lot.
Let's quickly have a look.
You can pick up skills
publish skills all the time and you can
interact with Azure using the AKS MCP
server to interact with AKS using
natural language.
Okay. Substrate. And I'm I'm getting low
on time here. So I'm going to go through
these announcements. So we've got a few
announcements, four announcements today
spanning both single cluster,
multicluster, and and fleet. And we're
going to walk through them.
Okay. Generally available, we have AKS
automatic. If you're using automatic,
it's the easiest way to get started with
Kubernetes and AKS. But what we've done
now is give you manage system node PS.
So all the pods that need to run the
Kubernetes components themselves, we now
take care of managing that and scaling
that. Why it matters for AI is you don't
need to run those components on your GPU
nodes.
Oh, that's it. That's exactly actually
what really excites me because you don't
need to rerun your
Yeah. Uh GPU nodes.
Let's say you want to milk every uh
cycle out of to run your AI workload. So
that that's AKS automatic with managed
system node pools. Um G today. Um Azure
container Linux. Excited about this one.
So we've given you the best of Azure and
the best of Linux and Azure container
Linux. You get smaller attack surface
area. We've curated the level of package
packages, smaller CVEs and predictable
uh fast patching cycles. Uh we have
transparent supply chain. So we package
everything up, distribute it to the
nodes so that you get predictable signed
artifacts, predictable upgrade paths for
regular regulated workloads and then
cons consistency across host. You can
start this up for both uh in a container
environment on your VMs or even in
small thing. This is actually the main
reason that we were allowed to run this
for this particular financial
organization. Um
that was actually selling point uh in
terms of the approval point in terms of
allowing us to run the application
discovery across the whole state of the
applications on on premise
in WSL on your Windows machine as well.
So we believe the OS layout in AKS
should be invisible, secure by default
and consistent and out of your way.
Okay, really excited about the public
preview of AKS on bare metal. So this is
direct hardware access from AKS to
manage physical nodes, right? So we can
actually install AKS on
on physical hardware with no hypervisor.
So no virtualization layer for your
workload which is important for GPUs,
nicks and all the like of the
specialized accelerated hardware. Same
AKS control
plane different operational model same
operational model sorry and it matters
for AI because you can extend AI to
on-prem other clouds and have it inside
Azure and not pay the virtualization tax
for your on-prem environment. So it
allows you to scale very quickly.
And finally, I'm really excited about
this one. Clusters get really, really
big really quickly. So, you want to be
able to be in a position where you can
manage the fleet of clusters. Fleet for
Arc enabled clusters allows you to have
progressive rollouts across clusters.
Intelligent workload placement uh for
your workloads across different
boundaries, environments on prem and on
the edge. Uh consistent policy
enforcement, so we're pushing the same
policies to all environments at the same
time. And it's ARC enabled. So it's in
the Azure. It has an identity in Azure
using the same control plane. So all AI
workloads outgrow a single cluster very
quickly.
And this is how you stay ahead of them
that.
Okay. So back to the full cher. We've
run the whole thing. I'm just going to
finish up with two customers. I need
just an extra two minutes here. I've got
too excited. So, what this looks like in
production, we're going to show you a
couple of customer use cases. We
actually have Royal Bank of Canada here
who are leveraging Kito in production.
The platform onboarding and deployment
operator wraps the GPU resource
provisioning into a CI/CD workflow that
the developers run themselves. So, it's
a self-service deployment and it's
secure by default. Kaido is used for the
production model serving workspace at AI
models deployed as pods and the model
images are stored in the bank's ACR
which adds your container registry. So
the really important thing is we have a
compliance uh perimeter. This is a bank
obviously and they're utilizing uh
things like Entra ID key volt private
ACR and their models are all and all
their data stays inside their secure
perimeter their uh subscription and
their boundary and this is a really
great example of how banks are utilizing
tools like AKS on top of Kaido on top of
AKS for model serving.
Okay, one more before I finish up. This
is really
Polycur wave is rewriting the
self-driving playbook
with end to end deep learning and
they're running that on AKS with Ray. So
their driver, the AI driver actually
demonstrated autonomous driving in Tokyo
only after 4 months. I lived in Japan
for 4 years and I still couldn't drive
in Tokyo. Uh so that beat me out. So
with a brand new Nissan vehicle
they demonstrated learning on the go. So
that kind of generalization required
massive infrastructure and clusters and
they use a AKS and any scale on Azure to
connect thousands of GPUs into a
flexible computer supercomput for
training and validation.
And this training layer is pushed to its
limits. The scale of the infrastructure
directly determines how quickly they can
iterate and train the models.
Right? So
I think you get the idea of how it all
kind of fit together. And then the
previous example that we showed with
Canada backup Canada that was actually
exactly what we did for this particular
case and that's that's where the
excitement comes in. It was right on
time and then we didn't really want to
like subscribe to tools or
really worry about like all the small
small details. In this case when we try
to create that inference and training
layer it we automatically actually try
to understand as for the the skills that
we create what's around that ecosystem
and what subnet that it should reach to
and then what are the application inside
that particular subnets and then how
they talk to each other and create them
in a nice graphical uh representation.
So that's kind of uh how we use agentic
case at this point but I really
encourage you to u I I know that you got
that uh QR code which has this demo and
all the code base that you can try out
try out on AKS and also the NAS scale
any scale options uh that AKS provide at
this point and uh yeah that kind of
concludes my excitement field.
technical
difficulties.
You just come back from he just come
from
some some some people have silly ideas
and what mine was to run the build local
host or work on the build local host
down in Wellington today and then rush
to the airport and then try and deal
with Oakland traffic. Um, I forgot how
bad Oakland traffic actually is.
Um, so yes,
grab this.
Okay,
give me a quick moment to grab the right
slides
and away we'll go from here.
Okay, build. So, in case you hadn't
realized,
a lot of build this year was about AI
because there's this funny thing and it
seems to be going on a little bit in the
industry around us. And so, what I
wanted to to sort of talk through is a
little bit around the the Microsoft
agent platform. So this was kind of a
big theme that threaded through and even
some of the the presentations so far
have touched on aspects of that around
how that works into things like um
fabric and so forth from there.
And so at the found at the starting
point, the this this concept of
Microsoft talking about the agent
platform is Microsoft leaning into what
they've always done well, which is we
have a big ecosystem.
And so let's demonstrate and let's show
the value that comes from integrating
across the ecosystem rather than having
to go and pick and choose vendors across
different stacks in order to be able to
do that. And so this is kind of that
that one end to end system. Um they
Microsoft have code in GitHub. I mean
who here uses is a developer or stores
code in GitHub?
Most of us because it's it's it's the
major platform. And for those that are
still using ADO, you'll be there
eventually.
It's not going away just yet, but
they're working on on tighter
integrations to help make that
migration. And on the other side of it,
who uses Exchange and SharePoint, One
Drive, all of that in a corporate? Apart
from the apart from the odd crazy people
like us, um, who use Google, almost
everybody uses the Microsoft 365 stack.
So, you've got the two ends that
Microsoft already has. And then in the
middle, how is Microsoft positioning
that? But because of their relationship
with developers and everything as well,
there's the foundation of the framework.
So we have the Microsoft agent framework
which went G within u the build as well
as announces to G as being the
foundation for actually then building
those agents as well and that framework
is actually a big part of Microsoft's
broader play in terms of where it is
that you can be developing and building
your agents and depending on how we go
for time um we might get into a very
quick demo which is just be some poking
around the portal to show you some of
the great stuff that's come out that
Microsoft agent framework gives you for
free from the foundations.
Um and this the a big part of the
discussion is this real understanding
about we're moving AI from chatbot
interfaces where we call it up at the
time that we want it to moving towards
true agentic workflows where an agent
becomes part of the team working
alongside you to assist you. an agent
that can reach into your mailbox and
pull out data or into a have a shared
mailbox or a mailbox of its own that it
can reach into that you can message via
teams and get it to join into a
conversation. Not just jumping into it
and going, "Hey, give me the latest
information." It can actually be
proactively running to find and and do
work for you while you're sleeping
because it's already being predefined
about what it needs to do and things are
ready for you in the morning. But with
all of that, the challenge becomes
security and trust. How do we we work
through that? Again, this has been a big
part Microsoft has been working on. And
if we've got the time, I want to try and
get into some of the details around the
observability stack that Microsoft
announced as well.
It excites me. I think that makes me
weird. Not many people are excited by
observability, but I've had to build AI
agents and I know how crucial it is,
particularly as we start to let these
agents do more themselves. Being able to
actually say why they did what they did
and have that traceability is a really
critical thing on the way through.
You may have also heard that at Build
Microsoft announced seven new AI models.
Now these are all brand new models that
Microsoft has trained from the ground
up. They're not leveraging they're
leveraging learnings but they're not
leveraging the GPT open AI models. They
are brand new ones from there. And a lot
of the excitement for this comes not so
much because the performance is there
yet. I mean from from reports the
performance is pretty good. So
transcribe is five times faster than the
competition. uh ev uh from that the
reasoning model thinking one was
preferred in many blind tests over
sonnet 46. Now that's a couple of
generation couple of revisions old and
that's sonnet not opus but for a first
release of a model that's a good
starting point. There's a voice model
for speech generation. So you've got the
the speech to text and now the text to
speech capability and a coding one that
has been designed very specifically to
work with GitHub copilot. So one of the
comments I saw on in regards to that is
it actually performs much better through
GitHub copilot because it's been trained
on the way that GitHub copilot works.
And so having that synergy in a similar
way to you hear a lot of reports that
the the Claude models work better
through Claude code. Well, we might see
this. Now Code One flash is again not a
frontier or a top level model. It's very
similar to the Claude Haiku models, but
it's significantly cheaper. And so these
are some advantages that are starting to
come out. But one of the other pieces
that was was a key foundation of this is
these are models that Microsoft is
encouraging and making it very easy for
you to customize to train on top of with
your own data. And the best thing that
what that will do is that will give you
far better results for cheaper because
you can take that model, train it on
your specific data. Therefore, get a
smaller model that's yours to use rather
than having to use a much bigger model
at a higher token cost. Takes a little
bit of time, takes a little bit of
effort. This is what machine learning
models have done uh for many years as
you take a base model and you train it
on your specific data set. Microsoft now
makes that easy to do through Foundry as
well.
Flash.
Yeah,
you had two flashes, voice and voice
flash. What's voice? Um so voice flash
is just a um faster version so a smaller
model size.
Okay.
Um so same with both the image and the
voice. So again it's it they become
trade-offs is your bigger model is going
to give you better performance at a
higher token cost and will tend to be
slower. The faster models are smaller
models. They will give you nearly as
good quality but at a lower cost and a
at a quicker pace. So all of these it's
always worth checking and and trying
them out and seeing what suits your use
case. And again, that's something else
that Microsoft has announced as part of
the foundry release.
One of the other big things was the
announcement of IQ, the IQ suite going
um GA. Now, IQ's probably being
mentioned on the way through. Apologies
if I do repeat what anybody has said on
the way through. I wasn't here to hear
it as my defense. Uh and so within the
IQ suite, what this is is a way of again
Microsoft leveraging the investment that
people already have into the Microsoft
suite and making them easy for your
agents to take advantage of. So there
are four IQs that that were announced.
One of them is brand new. Um so we have
work IQ, which is the interface into
your Microsoft 365 data. So, this is
being being able to get your agent to
reach in and get your teams, SharePoint,
um, Exchange, any of that Microsoft 365
data, your graph API to reach in. The
advantage of it is you don't have to go
and code this up all yourself. Could you
do all of this? Absolutely you can. The
APIs are all there. But with the IQ
system, Microsoft makes it really easy
to hand over the authentication process
to it. it will do take care of the on
behalf of flow so that all of the data
in out of work IQ is grounded in the
context of what the agent has access to
and so if that's operating in the
context of a user it's only the data
that user has access to if it's
operating the context of an agent itself
it will only be what data you give the
agent access to and so this is just
leveraging entra ID and permissions that
we're already used to using but it makes
it really easy to get hold of it fabric
IQ is for doing the same for your C your
corporate data as you start if people if
organizations adopt fabric and the data
is there in your oneway fabric IQ makes
reaching into that really really simple
and particularly with the release of
ontologies or the announcement of that
in preview that's going to allow you to
define a structure to your data that an
agent can then reach in understand at a
semantic level what does this column
mean and therefore make that far more
useful to your agents
Foundry IQ is going to do the same thing
for then unstructured data that you
might have. So this is not your
SharePoint files. This is not your
corporate data that is in fabric but
this might be some supplier documents.
So you store it in a blob storage uh
account and you need to get access into
it. This will give the the the ability
to work over um through things like
content understanding to load a PDF
document which may not be particularly
um machine readable but for the content
understanding system to iterate over the
document generate out of that a JSON
format. Let's say you've got a table of
um in one of the examples they used
fiber connectivity what's connected to
where with what settings and it's just a
table that a human can look at and
understand but a machine's going to look
at that and go what is it content
understanding starts to bring meaning to
that and that can be surfaced through
foundry IQ and then the new web IQ which
is being by any other name um is the
ability to get out and reach out into
websites but again in a format that the
agents are much is much easier for them
to understand. But with the IQ system,
what it allows us to also do is box what
is accessible. So we don't have to
necessarily give a full web search
through web IQ. You can limit that down
to maybe you've got publicly available
information on your website through web
IQ. you surface that document, those
documents or those FAQs or whatever that
publicly accessible information is in
from a web format into an agent specific
format so that you can ground your
agents in specific data rather than just
a general web search.
Cool.
Uh and this leads us into to Foundry and
some of the announcements out of
Foundry. Um the key one that excites me
quite a lot is the hosted agent concept.
So when Foundry first came out, the key
agents that you could create are what
are now being called prompt agents.
These are just simple agents which in a
lot of situations is all an organization
needs. If you can provide your set of
tools through the IQ system or other MCP
servers or skills and you can provide a
prompt for what you want to do, a prompt
agent is sufficient for what you need to
do. But there are many situations where
you actually need to get in and
customize the logic. You need to provide
codebased tools to do things. You want
to do a multi- orchestration system
where you have coordinators and sub
agents and therefore the ability to hand
off from there. You can do that to a
point with the prompt agents, but
sometimes you need a depth of
functionality. And so you need a
codebased agent,
but where are you going to run that?
Because the problem is in a lot of
situations and and we feel this in in
New Zealand being a much smaller market
a lot of times a lot of the solutions
that get proposed are expensive.
When you think of of needing to run for
example a premium app service for a lot
of organizations for for a lot of what
we want to do that's more cost and over
and over overhead than we need. But
Foundry hosted service the the hosted
agent service is built on the same
framework as the flex consumption apps.
So what this means is we have subsecond
start time for your agent. We have scale
to zero for your agent and we have
consumptionbased billing for your agent.
What that simply means is you only pay
for what you use when you use it. You
also then get the near infinite
scalability that comes from the cloud
and that's all just packaged out of the
box for you. You push a Docker container
up and that will run for you along with
all the management that comes within
Foundry. I mentioned already agent
framework going GA. So this is
Microsoft's core agent framework. A
melding of about four or five different
technologies. It's one of the first
times I think Microsoft has joined
technologies rather than splitting them
or creating new ones. So let's celebrate
that for a fact as a starting point. Um
and then I mentioned here the frontier
tuning. So that ability to tune your
model on your own data. And then
fireworks AI. So fireworks um as I
understand it is a a technology for
running and deploying open weight models
uh that you can reach out similar to
hugging face but slightly different from
there. that's now natively integrated
into Foundry for you to be able to run
those open weight models as well that
maybe aren't already available and all
the tuning that can come from doing
that.
If you have a question,
I want to say something about framework
on next Wednesday ESR will run a session
on net user group about Microsoft agent
framework. So if you guys don't have any
experience uh bring your laptop and we
will try to do some handation but yeah
that would be like really nice. So for
those on the call, Wednesday night, the
.NET user group is going to go through
agent framework. Bring your laptop,
register via the meetup group if you're
not already registered for that one as
well. Yeah,
this is being shared
this
the slide deck.
It's on the other group.
Oh, it is. So the um
it's going to be
links will be live.
Yeah, the links will be live. These
these are all links straight out of um
the build sessions as well. But yes, if
we're going to share this, those those
links will be live um from there as
well. that firework scratching.
Yeah. Um it's one one that I've got to
look into a little bit more deeply as
well to understand it a bit more.
Yep. Nice. Uh and then the the last
piece to think about is how do we
actually govern these agents? Um, I was
chatting to uh an architect at an
organization just down in Wellington and
they are getting right into C-Pilot
Studio. And so they've got thousands of
agents that their team have started to
to create. But his biggest concern now
is how do we know what's there? How do
we find the ones that people are using?
And how do we um start making them
available to other people and not ending
up in a situation with I'm sure we've
all heard about it, that one guy who
created that one access database that
still lives on in your organization
today even though he left 25 years ago
and everyone is really afraid to touch
it. We don't want to get into that
scenario. And so for that, Microsoft is
is bringing in agent 365 from there. And
what this allows um uh the the
compliance teams to do is get a first of
all holistic view of the agents that are
available, who's using them, what's
going on with them, that registry
surfaces them so that they can then have
policy applied to them about what they
can and can't do. And it just gives you
that layer of control over those agents
that you might not have otherwise. Um
another um integration or announcement
that came out is Microsoft following
Apple
at Dubdub DC last year. Apple announced
their Apple containers which are small
lightweight VM that can run on the Apple
silicon. Microsoft now in window with
Windows has the Microsoft execution
container which is again that
lightweight VM concept that runs on your
machine for isolation. As part of that,
what that is enabling is things like and
plug for Monday night with the GitHub
user group for those that want to come
along for that. Um the fact that we can
now sandbox our agents inside GitHub
profile
which means that therefore they don't
they can't reach out and do RMS minus RM
slash
for example. Um it was great fun
watching watching one of the presenters
um today turn on YOLO mode and autopilot
and we're sitting there watching as it
goes off to download and start
installing Python 3.12 on his Windows
machine and this is the sort of thing
that containers these containerization
environments will help with for that
there uh and then the M dash security
system. So this is Microsoft from their
research. This is a um a preview um
feature. It's a security system that
Microsoft has been developing
internally. Mdash is the code name. The
in the aim of this is to work out how
can we start looking into these agents
regardless of the language and start
looking for potential security
vulnerabilities, what might be going on
uh in terms of that. So that's um
something that's exciting to be seeing
from there.
Super high level view on that. As I
said, I did want to do a really quick
demo before I get run out of of
everything. And so what I want to do is
take us across to the um the mic the
foundry portal. So what we have here is
one of the announcements was toolbox
going GA well sorry nearly going GA um
for that. So within Foundry we can
create a list of tools. These are just
primarily MCP servers that are exposed
automatically. But here, who here has um
run into the problem where they've
suddenly realized that they have no
context for an agent because it's all
taken up by MCP servers? Anyone who's
used the GitHub MCP server should be
familiar with that problem.
The issue is that this they come into
context. The more the bigger your
context, the more it costs, the longer
it takes for it to run. But how do we
take something like the GitHub MCP
server, make it available for only the
pieces that we need? This is where tool
boxes come into play. So a tool box in
foundry is just like it sounds a
collection of tools that we can provide
and then we have a single endpoint we
give to our agent. So it's one MCP
server that has to think about and all
everything else is delegated out to the
toolbox. We can then in that toolbox
pick and choose what tools we want to
make available from the tool set. So in
this case here maybe we reach out to
GitHub. We also need to reach out to
teams. So we leverage the work IQ
integration to be able to do that. But
we don't have to put up with the whole
here is everything within my toolbox. I
can specify which of the tools from the
MCP server we will make available. So if
we if you're used to writing an agent
and only selecting specific tools,
toolbox will allow that control at
actually the toolbox level rather than
having to think about it at the agent
level. This is great for letting
developers go and consume without
running into issues. Here's a readonly
endpoint. Go nuts. Do what you want on
the readonly endpoint. You can't shoot
yourself in the foot because there is
not a single right capability available
to you in that endpoint that we've given
you.
But the other advantage that now comes
and this is a new preview here is this
tool search functionality. So instead of
now just splatting every single tool
into the context window one tool turn
fundamentally turns up search I want to
use a tool what tools have you got
available for me here's the tool that
you can use now you can call that tool
and use it little bit more back and
forth with the LLM but means that your
context window is much much smaller
there's not all of this extra work in
the all of this extra information in the
context so toolboxes is a great part of
boundary
One of the other things I talked about
and and I think was mentioned ear might
have been mentioned earlier is about the
core like agents. These agents that are
always able to run and I mentioned the
fact of being able to set up agents to
be able to do things on a schedule.
Welcome to cron I mean sorry routines
where you can set up your agent to fire
off at specific times. And so in here we
pick our agent, we set a prompt, we set
a trigger and let it go. and it and on
that schedule it will go and it will
perform the task that you've asked it to
perform and away it can go. We can
integrate this then into teams or
wherever we want to for summary
information to come back through um from
there. You could also hook these
obviously into an event driven workflow.
You end up with an event that triggers
an agent and away it goes from there.
But this is one of the pieces that
really I re I really like because as I
mentioned in terms of the challenge that
we have about understanding what went
on. So this here is the new trace view.
This gives us the details of what has
gone on inside our ranger.
You can build this in any framework.
This is open standards through open
telemetry. Microsoft has done a lot of
work with open telemetry over the past
12 months to get standardized
conventions for geni genai tooling. You
get this for free out of the box with
Microsoft agent framework
as well.
Yeah. So that the Microsoft tooling will
give you these hotel format traces.
Submit that into your log analytics
workspace. Connect that to Foundry.
Bang. Here is your information that can
see what you can drill in and see what
has taken the time. Here's my
interaction back and forth. Here's the
chat. Here's the tool calls that I've
used. Then you have a look and see the
data that was used. What came? What went
from there? And if something's not gone
right, we can go down here and I'll just
go eight times for um for benefit. I can
look over and see the whole user view in
terms of all the information or I can
hit play and get a momentby-moment
replay of the full conversation and
interaction that went on with that
agent. So in terms of troubleshooting
this is here out of the box for you.
Yeah. Is that my head's spinning out
here, but um does that mean that it
could be um say create a log use that
log to another agent?
Hold that thought.
Sorry.
Okay. Sorry. No, no, that's not it's an
excellent question, but I'm potentially
saying hold that thought because from
that data, now that we've got all of
this data from here, who knows about the
concept of evaluations for an agent.
So, this is where we run it through a a
synthetic set of tests. We give it a
question, we get its response, compare
that to what we think it should be. Is
anybody running agents in production at
the moment or close to?
No. One of the things we we we find when
we talk to people as they're starting to
get agents into production, it's like
fantastic. What's your evaluation
strategy? Ah,
and so Microsoft now has made that
really, really simple. If I come across
here, there is now tooling in the AZD
command line to automatically generate
some sample evaluations for you. So to
your question, David, it will go through
and have a look at the traces for your
agent. What interactions have gone on
with this agent? Let me generate some
sample evaluations off the bat that we
can use to start building evaluations
from that there. So my so out of the box
in in the evaluations there are a whole
stack of potential um evaluations that
could be used kind of customer
satisfaction rouge scores F1 scores um
groundedness fluency
we can build custom ones here which is
either based off code or off an LLM as a
judge and one of the new things that's
come out is this custom
rubric type where we take a collection
of them bring them together and use them
to give an overall score. From here,
feed that into the evaluations that
we've prepared in advance. Now, you've
got a really good way of being able to
actually evaluate all of your
interactions that are going on. You can
start to think about, oh, what change?
If I tweak the prompt,
what does that do? If I change model,
what does that do? But that takes time
and effort. And we don't like time and
effort these days, do we? And so what
Microsoft has also announced
inside AZD is an optimization agent.
So now that you've built those
evaluators, now that you've got all of
that tracing, you can then ask
the optimization agent to go away and
make recommendations.
It will take what we do in this is we
come here and we change the waiting of
our dimensions or if we find that the
quality is low on our evaluations from
these these here and then we say right
from this optimize and it is literally
pick my agent from here I've already got
the evaluation configuration created
because we did the evaluation first
here's my prompt file
what skills have I provided what tools
have I provided.
Do I want to change what model we're
targeting?
Thinks for a moment. What model am I
going to use to do all of this work? And
I press that and it will go away and it
will generate five to six candidates.
It will run them through that evaluation
suite and it will come back with a this
is my recommendation on the changes that
you should make to your agent. be it the
prompts, be it the tool descriptions, be
it the skills,
or be it based on which model you should
be using
and it will tell you what the
improvement percentage is on that
evaluation score.
Wow.
And then you with with one command you
can take that promote that to production
and you have now an improved agent.
So this is this is where we're starting
to head towards this this selfgeneration
of an agent. self-improvement
um in terms of that which is going to
make life easier for us. We still want
to be in the loop. We still want to be
reviewing and approving. But if a lot of
this work in the background can be done
for us, then our job becomes yes, let me
review that. Yes, let me approve that
and away we go from there.
So that was all that I kind of had in
terms of that side of things. Um
any other questions or anything
before we look to finish up?
Okay.
Yeah.
Uh as a SE in future and uh it's
necessary to management how to it's it's
very useful to management manage the the
AI agents as a platform in Asia is it?
Yes. Sorry. So I know ask the question
again please.
Yes. And uh will this agent as a
platform managed by SR in future? I I
think it's
very useful.
Yeah.
Yeah. Absolutely. because once that
observability to see if something's
going wrong, let me drill into and and
that's one thing that I haven't got set
up. But in the um in the trace view, if
if I had a post
post call post interaction evaluation
set up that when I drill into that
trace, I'll actually see the evaluation
results in there as well. So at the end
of at the end of an interaction we can
then run that through that evaluation
rubric and see did this meet the
requirements of it surface up any any
situations where it doesn't that allows
me to drill in so from an S sur
perspective to go these are the ones
that failed let me get in and actually
see what went on where did this go off
the rails such a critical thing uh in
terms of that but what the next step is
probably going to be and this is
probably I I can't speak for any
anything this is just where I see things
going. Microsoft have the S sur agent
inside of Azure which will help you
trigger off alerts to go and investigate
code issues and performance issues
inside your Azure estate
that could easily be extended to your
agents in Foundry at some point
and then allow you to drill into that
detail and actually the the agent starts
going off and there's a problem now we
start getting a getting feedback
automatically of hey we recommend that
you go and do this and that's going to
make your make your job even easier
because you don't have to do all of the
leg work to get in to understand it.
That's been done for you. Now you can do
the thinking work and the decision
making.
Uh and I
uh I have used the fabric IQ and found
IQ several days ago and found it. It's
very hard for us because it has not
detailed the documentation and
this the scale and ability for senior
SIM maybe happens two or three
later I think.
Yeah and and your your comment is is
correct. The comment is looking at using
work IQ or the IQ's fabric and foundry
IQ particularly and lacking in
documentation. Welcome to Microsoft.
Yes, this is very very hard. the the
docu the documentation is often lagging
behind uh in terms of a lot of those
things uh and it is sometimes difficult
to understand uh what's going on from
there um in terms of that and that that
is a case that's where going through I
mean even even this this demo that I was
using earlier today that I'm showing
here was pre-anned from Microsoft and I
still had to work through stuff and even
now parts of it aren't working properly
um that and that's with code that they
demonstrated on stage at build 3 weeks
ago.
So yeah,
give it time.
Yeah, absolutely. And that's the thing
is all of this is brand new um from
there. So it will take time for it to to
bed down for us to understand what are
the best ways to do all of this, but
it's about starting to think about what
this is is going to mean and how this is
going to to work for me. I think getting
your hands dirty is actually worth it
because you'll have so many problems and
then when the fixes come along go I know
how to do it.
Yeah.
Yeah. Take the take the opportunity to
start learning now. Um any other
questions? Anything online that you can
I can't see quite from there
just comments. M dash is a great name
and and so forth. Yeah.
Cool. Well, thank you very much. I'll um
hand it back over to San I think or or
Rory one or other
Christ Church and Wellington.
How many how many meet up you have right
now?
Today
I crazily it up on six presentations in
under a week.
So um thanks for coming. That was the
last piece. We really appreciate you
guys are coming and joining us.
See you tomorrow, Monday,
Wednesday. So, you have a couple of
events in concert as well, right?
Yeah. When doing this this thing,
if you guys have a question, uh probably
online.
Um so, yeah, we have
running.
Um, thank you for coming and please
welcome slides up. Uh, please uh do not
forget to put the name text on the back
to the basket
basket and please do not press the
emergency button unless it's emergency.
You know me.
Get out downstairs.
Hi Nick.
Hi. How you doing?
Hi.
is something else.
Good. Yeah.
And also I I found this meet up tomorrow
this morning and I found it I'm in the
weight list
and this meetup tomorrow's meet up start
from 9:00 a.m. I didn't I didn't think
it's very
Yeah, it's um it's a full day of like
training sort of thing. Yeah. So it's
it's full unfortunately, right? We
actually overfold. We can only cuz it's
all hands on lab, you know. So, we've
got 60 spaces and 70 people coming
already.
So, yeah, it's Yeah, a bit too full,
unfortunately.
Okay.
But thanks for the interest though.
Yeah,
next to our
party.
Yeah.
Okay. Thank you.
No worries.
But yeah, next week, as I said, Monday
night and Wednesday night, there's more
meetups.
Yes, I
Okay, awesome. See you then. See you,
mate. Mhm. Byebye. No worries. Wait.
There we go again.
Oh,
[__]
Hey.
Uhhuh.